DOCS-6885 Add Quality Gates Setup, Search + Manage, and Explorer Documentation (#21089)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/quality_gates/setup/_index.md

8. Click **Save Rule**.

## Invoking quality gates

Quality Gates, requires [`datadog-ci`][7] version `2.19.0` or later.

Invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command.

This command:

1. Retrieves all the rules that have [rule scopes](#rule-scope) and [custom scopes](#custom-scope) that match the current pipeline context (repository, branch, or custom scope passed in the command).
2. Evaluates all the matching rules.
3. Fails if one or more blocking rules fail, thereby blocking the pipeline.

<div class="alert alert-danger">For the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

| Environment Variables | Description |
|---|---|
| `DD_API_KEY` | Point to your [Datadog API key][5]. |
| `DD_APP_KEY` | Point to your [Datadog application key][6]. |
| `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` | Set to `true`. |
| `DD_SITE` | (Optional) Point to a specific [Datadog site][12] (default value is `datadoghq.com`). |

> | LOGGING_MAXDAYS | Number of days to keep file logs on the system before deleting them. Can be any number when running an unattended installation. |
> | WORKERCONFIG_FILEPATH | This should be changed to the path to your Synthetics Private Location Worker JSON configuration file. Wrap this path in quotes if your path contains spaces. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `LOGGING_MAXDAYS` | Number of days to keep file logs on the system before deleting them. Can be any number when running an unattended installation. |
| `WORKERCONFIG_FILEPATH` | Specify the path to your Synthetics Private Location Worker JSON configuration file. Wrap the value in quotes if it contains spaces. |
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For example: 

```

<pre>
<code>
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DD_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}} DD_API_KEY=&lt;API_KEY&gt; DD_APP_KEY=&lt;APP_KEY&gt; datadog-ci gate evaluate
</code>

> </pre>

Reviewer: Is there a reason we're using html instead of backticks or codeblock shortcode here? It's not getting the (useful) copy button as a result

Reviewer 2: ah, yes I think that's worth updating - having the copy button would be nice

Check the command logs to see the overall gate evaluation status and information about the rules that were evaluated.

{{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}

## Rule scope
Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog. You can create two types of rules: Static Analysis and Tests. For example, you can block code from being merged if it introduces new [flaky tests][1], code security violations, or other issues that wouldn't normally fail your CI/CD pipelines and end up deployed to production.

When creating a rule, you can define a scope, which states when the rule should be evaluated. If the rule scope is
set to `always evaluate`, the rule is evaluated on all repositories and branches.
With Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed. This allows you to ensure that the code running in production is meeting high quality standards, reducing incidents, and minimizing unwanted behaviors.

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_always_evaluate.png" alt="Rule scope for rules always evaluated" style="width:90%;">}}

> You can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Select the rule type. You can choose between `Static Analysis` and `Test`.
4. Define the rule condition. The rule condition states in which scenario the rule fails, failing the related pipeline (if the rule is blocking). You can select one of the existing rule conditions for the rule type you have selected.

The following example shows how to create a static analysis rule that fails when there are one or more static analysis violations with "error" status and "security" category being introduced in a specific commit:

   {{< img src="ci/qg_rule_condition_sa_errors_security_2.png" alt="Rule for static analysis security errors" style="width:80%;">}}

5. Select whether the rule should block the pipeline or not when it fails.
   Non-blocking rules are helpful when rolling out a new rule and wanting to verify its behavior before making it blocking.
6. Select the time window over which the query is evaluated.

> 7. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.

Reviewer 2: Yes

> 7. Select a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.

Author: ```suggestion
7. Specify a rule name that describes the rule that you are creating.
```

8. Click **Save Rule**.

## Invoking quality gates

To use quality gates, your [`datadog-ci`][7] version should be `2.19.0` or later.

You can invoke the Quality Gates evaluation by calling the [`datadog-ci gate evaluate`][4] command.

This command:

1. Retrieves all the rules that have [rule scopes](#rule-scope) and [custom scopes](#custom-scope) matching the current pipeline context (repository, branch, or custom scope passed in the command).
2. Evaluates all the matching rules.

> 3. If one or more blocking rules fail, the command fails as well, blocking the pipeline.

Reviewer 2: you forgot to lowercase the i in "If"
should be "Fails if one..."

<div class="alert alert-danger">For the command to work properly, it's important that the events (tests, static analysis violations)
are sent to Datadog <strong>before</strong> the <code>datadog-ci gate evaluate</code> command is executed.
Otherwise, the rules might have an incorrect behavior due to the absence of the events.
</div>

The command requires the `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment

> variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DD_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site (default value is `datadoghq.com`).

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I think that makes sense to make it a list. But I think it should stay where it is, since it's about how to invoke the command properly.

These are all things you add to the CLI command, which we have a code component for, shown below this line.

> The command requires the `DD_API_KEY` and `DD_APP_KEY` environment variables to point to your [Datadog API Key][5]
> and [Datadog Application Key][6]. Also, you need to set the `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` environment
> variable as `true`. Optionally, you can specify the `DD_SITE` environment variable to point to a specific datadog site (default value is `datadoghq.com`).

Author: ```suggestion
| Environment Variables | Description |
|---|---|
| `DD_API_KEY` | Point to your [Datadog API key][5]. |
| `DD_APP_KEY` | Point to your [Datadog application key][6]. |
| `DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED` | Set to `true`. |
| `DD_SITE` | (Optional) Point to a specific [Datadog site][12] (default value is `datadoghq.com`). |
| LOGGING_MAXDAYS | Number of days to keep file logs on the system before deleting them. Can be any number when running an unattended installation. |
| WORKERCONFIG_FILEPATH | This should be changed to the path to your Synthetics Private Location Worker JSON configuration file. Wrap this path in quotes if your path contains spaces. |
```

<pre>
<code>
DD_BETA_COMMANDS_ENABLED=true DD_SITE={{< region-param key="dd_site" >}} DD_API_KEY=&lt;API_KEY&gt; DD_APP_KEY=&lt;APP_KEY&gt; datadog-ci gate evaluate
</code>
</pre>

The behavior of the command can be modified using the following flags:
- `--fail-on-empty`: when this flag is specified, the command fails if no matching rules were found in Datadog
based on the current pipeline context. By default, the command succeeds.
- `--fail-if-unavailable`: when this flag is specified, the command fails if one or more rules could not be evaluated because of an internal issue.
By default, the command succeeds.

> - `--timeout`: the command stops its execution after the specified timeout in seconds. The default timeout is 10 minutes.

Author: ```suggestion
- `--timeout`: The command stops its execution after the specified timeout in seconds. The default timeout is 10 minutes.
```

The command typically completes within a few minutes, but it could take longer due to processing delays in Datadog.

> - `--no-wait`: by default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.

Author: ```suggestion
- `--no-wait`: By default, the command waits a certain amount of time for the events (tests, static analysis violations) to arrive to Datadog.
```

This step is important as it makes sure that the events are queryable in Datadog before the rules are executed,
avoiding incorrect evaluations. If, in your pipeline, the job containing the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is
called several minutes after the related events are sent to Datadog, you could skip this waiting time by specifying the `--no-wait` flag.
If used incorrectly, this flag may result in inaccurate rule evaluations.

[Custom scopes](#custom-scope) can be added by using the following option one or more times: `--scope`:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend --scope team:frontend
{{< /code-block >}}

The command logs can be examined to understand what was the overall gate evaluation status, along with information
about all the rules that were evaluated.

> {{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}
> ## Overview

Author: ```suggestion
{{< img src="ci/datadog_ci_gate_evaluate_logs.png" alt="Datadog-ci gate evaluate logs" style="width:90%;">}}
```

## Rule scope
Quality Gates allows you to gate your workflows based on signals in Datadog. You can create two types of rules: Static Analysis and Tests. For example, you can block code from being merged if it introduces new [flaky tests][1] or code security violations in addition to issues that wouldn't normally fail your CI/CD pipelines and end up deployed to production.

When creating a rule, you can define a scope, which states when the rule should be evaluated. If the rule scope is
set to `always evaluate`, the rule is evaluated on all repositories and branches.
With Quality Gates, you have control over what is merged into the default branch, and ultimately on what is deployed. This allows you to ensure that the code running in production is meeting high quality standards, reducing incidents, and minimizing unwanted behaviors.

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_always_evaluate.png" alt="Rule scope for rules always evaluated" style="width:90%;">}}

> You can:

Author: ```suggestion

You can:
```

When the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is invoked, the rules having a scope matching the command context are evaluated.
* Create rules that can block your workflows using data in Datadog.
* Give your teams control over what code makes it to production and what doesn't.

> * Continually raise the bar on code quality with precise and easy enforcement.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it's in the Overview page, we can get rid of it from here.

> When the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is invoked, the rules having a scope matching the command context are evaluated.
> * Create rules that can block your workflows using data in Datadog.
> * Give your teams control over what code makes it to production and what doesn't.
> * Continually raise the bar on code quality with precise and easy enforcement.

Author: ```suggestion
When the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command is invoked, the rules having a scope matching the command context are evaluated.
```

If a rule does not contain a scope, it is evaluated for all values for that scope.
For example, if a rule does not contain the `repository` scope, it is evaluated for all repositories.

### Custom scope

In addition to branch and repository, you can define custom scopes to filter rules that are evaluated for a specific CI pipeline.

To add a custom scope when creating a rule:

1. Click **+ Add Filter** and select **Custom Scope**.
2. Define the scope name, for example, `team`.
3. Define the scope's included or excluded values.

Unlike the `branch` and `repository` scopes, custom scopes need to be provided in the `datadog-ci gate evaluate` command using the `--scope` option.
For example, you can create a rule that is evaluated for the `example-repository` repository, but only when the team is `backend`:

{{< img src="ci/rule_scope_example_repository_team_backend.png" alt="Rule scope for example-repository and team backend" style="width:90%;">}}

The rule would be evaluated when this command is invoked in a CI pipeline of the `example-repository` repository:
- `datadog-ci gate evaluate --scope team:backend`

> The rule would **not** be evaluated when the following commands are invoked instead:

Reviewer 2: Update copy here to be: "The rule is **not** evaluated when..."
remove the "be"

## Manage rules

To edit a Quality Gates rule, click the **Edit** icon to the right of the **Creator** avatar on the [Quality Gates Rules page][2].

{{< img src="ci/edit_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Edit a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

To delete a Quality Gates rule, click the **Delete** icon next to the **Edit** button on the [Quality Gates Rules page][2]. Alternatively, you can edit the rule and click **Delete Rule**.

{{< img src="ci/delete_quality_gate_rule.png" alt="Delete a Quality Gates rule" style="width:90%;">}}

## Enable GitHub check creation

You can automatically create a [GitHub check][9] for each rule evaluated. When this feature is enabled, the evaluation results appear directly in GitHub.
The check contains additional information about the rule evaluation, such as the failure reason and the matching events in Datadog.

To enable GitHub Checks:
1. Go to the [GitHub integration tile][10]. If you do not have this integration set up, or you don't have a GitHub app within the integration, follow [the GitHub integration documentation][11] to set one up.
2. Grant `Checks: Write` access to the GitHub application.

> After the permission is granted, you should be able to see the checks in GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the permission is granted, you can see the checks in GitHub.
```

> **Note**: You cannot re-run a check to re-run the related Quality Gates rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Re-running a check does not re-run the corresponding Quality Gates rule.
```

## Permissions

Only users with the `quality_gate_rules_write` permission can create and edit Quality Gate rules. Users with the `quality_gate_rules_read` permission can view Quality Gate rules.

For more information, see the [RBAC Permissions documentation][1].

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

[1]: /account_management/rbac/permissions
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/ci/quality-gates
[3]: /account_management/audit_trail/events/#ci-visibility-events
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/src/commands/gate/README.md
[5]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys
[6]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/application-keys
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/blob/master/README.md
[8]: /continuous_integration/guides/flaky_test_management/
[9]: https://docs.github.com/en/rest/checks
[10]: https://app.datadoghq.com/integrations/github

> [11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/github/

Author: ```suggestion
[11]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/github/
[12]: /getting_started/site/
```
